---
layout: post
title:      "Git or Treat"
date:       2018-10-26 00:12:15 -0500
permalink:  git_or_treat
---

Git gets a lot easier the more you just dig in and use it. I feel like there's an inflection point on learning anything, where you can move on from just the basics fundamentals of understanding something to understanding something so well that you can start to think more creatively while using the new skill. This post is called "Git or Treat" because it's almost Halloween and sometimes git can be scary! 🎃 

I want to share some tricks that help me solve coding problems. If you are just learning Git or if you already have they basics down, I think it would be helpful to be familiar with these Git "tricks".

##  Trick #1 - Use Git to invesitage problems by sifting through old commits 🔍 

If you are working with an unfamiliar codebase, it's helpful to be able to look bad at old commits and see what changed and how it changed.

`git log` lists the commits made in that repository in reverse chronological order.
`git log --pretty=oneline` limits each commit message to one line and is more readable. This formate is helpful if you need to look through a lot of information.
`git show <commit hash>` will give you the commit hashes along with their messages. So, if you wanted to dig deeper in a certain commit, you could use this.

If you can't get any clues from listing the commit messages, you could try `git log -p` - shows a 'patch' of what was actually changed in the code along with each commit message.



`git log --follow <path>` shows all the commits in the give path. For example, `git log --follow _posts` shows the commit history for all the files in the `_posts` directory of this blog.

`git log -p --follow <path>` works the same as the previous command, but it also shows the 'patch' of code that was changed for each commit.

`git reflog` - Reflog is short for 'reference log'. They record when the tips of branches and other references were updated in the local repository. 


## Trick #2) Searching for specific things

Did you know grep stands for 'Global regular expression print'? It's a great acronym because it lets your search for stuff in your code base.

`git grep <search phrase>` will print lines that match the pattern you search for.

`git blame` shows what was changed and who changed it.

`git log --pretty=oneline -S'question'` shows everything in one line and let's your search for a phrase, in this case 'question

## How to Patch something onto the last commit`

`git add -p`
`git commit --amend`


## Don't be afraid of rebase



## BONUS - Cherry pick

`git cherry pick`

## BONUS OVERTIME

`git rebase`
